Step 1:

Permissions on /etc/shadow should allow only root read and write access.

Command to inspect permissions:
ls -l /etc/shadow

Command to set permissions (if needed):
sudo chmod 600 /etc/shadow

Permissions on /etc/gshadow should allow only root read and write access.

Command to inspect permissions:
ls -l /etc/gshadow

Command to set permissions (if needed):
sudo chmod 600 /etc/gshadow

Permissions on /etc/group should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access only.

Command to inspect permissions:
ls -l /etc/group

Command to set permissions (if needed):
None. Default allows read and write access to root and read access to group and others (-rw-r--r--)

Permissions on /etc/passwd should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access only.

Command to inspect permissions:
ls -l /etc/passwd

Command to set permissions (if needed):
None. Default allows read and write access to root and read access to group and others (-rw-r--r--)

Step 2:

Create User Accounts

Add user accounts for sam, joe, amy, sara, and admin.
Command to add each user account (include all five users):
sudo adduser sam
sudo adduser joe
sudo adduser amy
sudo adduser sara
sudo adduser admin
Ensure that only the admin has general sudo access.
Command to add admin to the sudo group:
sudo usermod -g sudo admin (confused between -g and -G, went with -g).


Step 3:

Create User Group and Collaborative Folder

Add an engineers group to the system.
Command to add group:
sudo addgroup engineers

Add users sam, joe, amy, and sara to the managed group.
Command to add users to engineers group (include all four users):
sudo usermod -g engineers sam
sudo usermod -g engineers joe
sudo usermod -g engineers amy
sudo usermod -g engineers sara

Create a shared folder for this group at /home/engineers.
Command to create the shared folder:
sudo mkdir /home/engineers

Change ownership on the new engineers' shared folder to the engineers group.
Command to change ownership of engineer's shared folder to engineer group:
sudo chown :engineers /home/engineers/

Step 4:

Lynis Auditing

Command to install Lynis:
sudo apt install lynis

Command to see documentation and instructions:
man lynis

Command to run an audit:
sudo lynis audit system



Provide a report from the Lynis output on what can be done to harden the system. Screenshot of report output:

Please check Image folder.


Bonus:

Command to install chkrootkit:
sudo apt install chkrootkit -y

Command to see documentation and instructions:
man chkrootkit

Command to run expert mode:
sudo chkrootkit -x

Provide a report from the chrootkit output on what can be done to harden the system. Screenshot of end of sample output:

Please check Images folder.
